## Variable Declarations
**JavaScript variables** are containers for data.

JavaScript variables can be **declared** in 4 ways:
#### Modern JavaScript
- Using `let`
- Using `const`
- Using `using` 
#### Older JavaScript
- Using `var` (Not Recommended)
- Automatically (Not Recommended)

| **var**                                                                        | **let**                                                                                   | **const**                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| The scope of a __var__ variable is functional or global scope.                 | The scope of a __let__ variable is block scope.                                           | The scope of a __const__ variable is block scope.                                              |
| It can be updated and re-declared in the same scope.                           | It can be updated but cannot be re-declared in the same scope.                            | It can neither be updated or re-declared in any scope.                                         |
| It can be declared without initialization.                                     | It can be declared without initialization.                                                | It cannot be declared without initialization.                                                  |
| It can be accessed without initialization as its default value is "undefined". | It cannot be accessed without initialization otherwise it will give 'referenceError'.     | It cannot be accessed without initialization, as it cannot be declared without initialization. |
| These variables are hoisted.                                                   | These variables are hoisted but stay in the temporal dead zone untill the initialization. | These variables are hoisted but stays in the temporal dead zone until the initialization.      |
#### Re-declaring Variables with var, let, and const
1. **with var:** The variable can be declared twice using var within the same scope, which allows re-declaration in the same scope.
2. **with let**: The variable can be declared with let, which allows reassignment but not re-declaration like var does.
3. **with const**: The variable with const  is declared with const, which does not allow reassignment or re-declaration of the variable.
4. **with using:** The **`using`** declaration declares block-scoped local variables that are _synchronously disposed_. Like `const`, variables declared with `using` must be initialized and cannot be reassigned.

## Hoisting
 Hoisting allowing us to use the variables before their actual declaration in the code, though only the declaration is moved, not assignments. In general use, *hoisting means you can call a function before defining it*, but with var, it's initialized to undefined; let and const variables are hoisted but remain in a "==temporal dead zone,==" causing a `ReferenceError` if accessed too early. 

## Variable Naming Rules
- Spaces are not allowed in variable names.
- Only **letters, digits, underscores, and dollar signs** are permitted in variable names.
- Case matters when it comes to variable names.
- A letter (alphabet), an underscore **( _ )**, or a dollar sign **($)** must be the first character in a variable name, any other special characters must not be taken.
- certain terms such as reserved words in JavaScript shouldn't be used to name variables.
#### Nomenclature followed by JavaScript
1. It is good to decide on a case and continue it throughout the code. ex: camel case. code looks elegant and proper.
2. Name your variable with more than one word. This will verify that the name of your variable is accurate.
3. It is suggested not to use variable names that are too short. They do not make proper sense.
## Scope
**Scope** determines the **accessibility** (visibility) of variables.
JavaScript variables have 3 types of scope:
- Global scope
- Function scope
- Block scope
#### Global Scope
Variables declared **Globally** (outside any block or function) have **Global Scope**. **Global** variables can be accessed from anywhere in a JavaScript program.
Variables declared with `var`, `let` and `const` are quite similar when declared outside a block.
#### Function Scope
Each JavaScript function have their own scope. Variables defined inside a function are not accessible (visible) from outside the function.
Variables declared with `var`, `let` and `const` are quite similar when declared inside a function.
#### Block Scope
Before [ES6](https://dev.to/codingcrafts/javascript-es6-features-every-developer-should-know-12ak), JavaScript variables could only have **Global Scope** or **Function Scope**.
ES6 introduced two important new JavaScript keywords: `let` and `const`.
These two keywords provide **Block Scope** in JavaScript.
Variables declared with `let` and `const` inside a code block are "block-scoped," meaning they are only accessible within that block.
>
>[!NOTE] If you assign a value to a variable that has **not been declared**, it will become a **GLOBAL** variable
>[!TIP] In "Strict Mode", undeclared variables are not automatically global.